Mr. A is a pleasant, xxx year old, white, male.
Referral: none

Source and Reliability: Self and mother, both reliable sources.

S (Subjective):

Chief complaint: Medication change for depression.

HPI:  Patient states that he has not been feeling the same over the past few weeks.  He has no desire to complete daily activities and does not want to get up out of bed.  Patient stays that he is always tired.  He can not think of any life changes that occurred prior to this change in behavior.  Nothing increases his energy levels or makes him feel better.  The patient complains of no pain.  His mother believes that he needs to have his medication switched to Celexa because that is what she takes for her depression.

Allergies: NKA

Current Mediation: Effexor 50mg BID.
	
Childhood Illnesses   Medical & Surgical: Broken right tibia as a child. Psychiatric: Depression

Health Maintenance. Immunizations: Immunizations up to date.  Health maintenance not addressed.

Family History: Mother   Depression.  Father   Heart disease.  Only child.

Social History: Patient lives with his mother and his aunt and uncle.  The patients father does not live with the patient or have much communication with him.  They share one car between the four of them.  The patient does not drink alcohol or use drugs.  Exercise & Diet:  not assessed. Safety Measures:  Wears seat belt.  No guns in the household.

ROS: Denies headache, weight gain or loss sleep disturbances, guilt, change in memory, change in speech, no delirium, psychomotor retardation or agitation. Patient complains of fatigue, loss of appetite, interest deficit, concentration deficit, and worthless.  Mother reports that the patient has become increasingly short tempered.  Patient has not attempted suicide previously, but has a plan to cut his wrists.  He states that he as not tried it before because he does not like blood.  Patient does not have any homicidal thoughts.

O (Objective)/Physical Exam
VS   BP: 118/68, HR: 86, RR: 16, Temp 98.6, weight: 151, height: 64 inches, BMI:
Mr. A is alert, awake, oriented x 3.  Patient is clean and dressed appropriate for age.  Flat affect, anxious, depressed, withdrawn, and responses to questions are extremely short.  Patient thought processes and content are abnormal with suicidal thoughts and a plan.  Patient insight into mental status changes in intact, accepts judgment.  Speech and language clear and understandable. No flight of ideas, obsessions, compulsions, delusions, illusions, or hallucinations.

A (Assessment)
Problem #1   Change in mental status.

Most Likely Diagnosis #1   Depression w/ suicidal ideations.  This diagnosis was chosen because the patient has multiple risk factors including current suicidal plan, availability of lethal means, and male gender.

Plan (P):

Testing: none.

Therapy/Treatment: Immediate referral to the local health department psychiatric department that takes walk in emergencies.  Patient and mother agree that they will go tomorrow.  Mother agrees that she will remove all knives from the house when they return home.  The patient made a verbal contract that he will not harm himself.

Follow-up: Patient and mother informed that if symptoms worsened this evening or prior to going to the psychiatrist that they are go to the closest emergency room for treatment.  Patient and local health department will be contacted tomorrow by the referral specialist and a nurse to ensure that the patient followed through with the psychiatric consult.
